README.md, before:

# Koneksi Backend
Koneksi Backend is a monorepo containing the services that power the Koneksi ecosystem. Designed for scalability and efficiency, it provides core functionalities such as authentication, resource management, analytics, and integrations. Each service is modular and optimized for high-performance distributed systems.

## 🚀 **Getting Started**

This project follows a **microservices architecture**, where each service runs in a **separate container**. The services communicate over a shared **Docker network**, allowing seamless interaction.

### **🛠 Services in the Development Setup**
The following microservices and dependencies are available in this local development environment:

| Service             | Description                              | Exposed Ports                           |
|---------------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| **MongoDB**         | NoSQL Database                           | `27017`                                 |
| **Mongo Express**   | Web UI for MongoDB                       | `8082`                                  |
| **Redis**           | In-memory key-value store                | `6379`                                  |
| **Redis Commander** | Web UI for Redis                         | `8083`                                  |
| **Elasticsearch**   | Search and analytics engine              | `9200`                                  |
| **Logstash**        | Data processing pipeline                 | `12201/udp`                             |
| **Kibana**          | Visualization for Elasticsearch          | `5601`                                  |
| **Tyk API Gateway** | API Gateway for managing requests        | `8080`                                  |
| **IAM Service**     | Handles user authentication & accounts   | `3001`                                  |

### **📌 Prerequisites**
Ensure you have the following installed:
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### **🔹 Cloning the Repository**
```sh
git clone https://github.com/koneksi-tech/koneksi-backend
cd koneksi-backend
```

### **🔹 Starting the Services**
To start all services, run:
```sh
./scripts/start.sh
```
This will:
- Start all containers in detached mode (`-d`).
- Automatically create and attach the **Docker network**.

### **🔹 Stopping the Services**
To stop the running services:
```sh
./scripts/stop.sh
```

To stop a specific service:
```sh
docker compose stop <service_name>
```
Example:
```sh
docker compose stop mongo
```

### **🔹 Restarting Services**
To restart all services:
```sh
./scripts/restart.sh
```

### **🔹 Rebuilding the Setup**
If you need to **rebuild everything and reset volumes**, run:
```sh
./scripts/rebuild.sh
```
This will:
- Stop all services.
- Remove named volumes.
- Restart everything with a clean state.

### **🔹 Viewing Logs**
To see logs for all services:
```sh
docker compose logs -f
```

To view logs for a specific service:
```sh
docker compose logs -f <service_name>
```
Example:
```sh
docker compose logs -f api-gateway
```

## ⚙ **Configuration**

### **🔹 Environment Variables**
Each microservice has its own `.env` file. The default locations are:

- **IAM Service**: `services/iam/.env`

Make sure you update these files with the correct values before running the services.

### **🔹 Network Configuration**
All services are attached to the `network` defined in `docker-compose.yml`, allowing them to communicate using **service names**.

Example:
- **IAM Service can connect to MongoDB** using:  
  ```
  mongodb://root:password@mongo:27017
  ```

## 🛠 **Adding a New Microservice**
To add a new service:
1. Create a directory under `services/` (e.g., `services/new-service`).
2. Add a `Dockerfile` and configuration files.
3. Update `docker-compose.yml` with:
   ```yaml
   new-service:
     build:
       context: services/new-service
       dockerfile: Dockerfile
     container_name: new-service
     restart: unless-stopped
     ports:
       - "300X:300X"
     env_file:
       - services/new-service/.env
     networks:
       - network
   ```
4. Start the service:
   ```sh
   docker compose up -d new-service
   ```

## 🛠 **Common Issues & Fixes**

### **❌ Port Already in Use**
**Issue:**  
```
Error: Bind for 0.0.0.0:8081 failed: port is already allocated
```
**Fix:**  
Run:
```sh
docker ps
```
Find the conflicting container and stop it:
```sh
docker stop <container_id>
```

### **❌ MongoDB Connection Issues**
**Fix:**  
Ensure MongoDB is running:
```sh
docker compose up -d mongo
```
Then check logs:
```sh
docker compose logs -f mongo
```

### **❌ Service Not Found**
**Fix:**  
Run:
```sh
docker network inspect network
```
If the service is missing, restart:
```sh
./scripts/stop.sh
./scripts/start.sh
```

Commit message:

Update README to reflect Koneksi Server details and add koneksi-ipfs configuration for API Gateway

README.md, after:

# Koneksi Backend
Koneksi Backend is a monorepo containing the services that power the Koneksi ecosystem. Designed for scalability and efficiency, it provides core functionalities such as authentication, resource management, analytics, and integrations. Each service is modular and optimized for high-performance distributed systems.

## 🚀 **Getting Started**

This project follows a **microservices architecture**, where each service runs in a **separate container**. The services communicate over a shared **Docker network**, allowing seamless interaction.

### **🛠 Services in the Development Setup**
The following microservices and dependencies are available in this local development environment:

| Service             | Description                              | Exposed Ports                           |
|---------------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| **MongoDB**         | NoSQL Database                           | `27017`                                 |
| **Mongo Express**   | Web UI for MongoDB                       | `8082`                                  |
| **Redis**           | In-memory key-value store                | `6379`                                  |
| **Redis Commander** | Web UI for Redis                         | `8083`                                  |
| **Elasticsearch**   | Search and analytics engine              | `9200`                                  |
| **Logstash**        | Data processing pipeline                 | `12201/udp`                             |
| **Kibana**          | Visualization for Elasticsearch          | `5601`                                  |
| **Tyk API Gateway** | API Gateway for managing requests        | `8080`                                  |
| **Koneksi Server**  | Core backend server                      | `3000`                                  |

### **📌 Prerequisites**
Ensure you have the following installed:
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### **🔹 Cloning the Repository**
```sh
git clone https://github.com/koneksi-tech/koneksi-backend
cd koneksi-backend
```

### **🔹 Starting the Services**
To start all services, run:
```sh
./scripts/start.sh
```
This will:
- Start all containers in detached mode (`-d`).
- Automatically create and attach the **Docker network**.

### **🔹 Stopping the Services**
To stop the running services:
```sh
./scripts/stop.sh
```

To stop a specific service:
```sh
docker compose stop <service_name>
```
Example:
```sh
docker compose stop mongo
```

### **🔹 Restarting Services**
To restart all services:
```sh
./scripts/restart.sh
```

### **🔹 Rebuilding the Setup**
If you need to **rebuild everything and reset volumes**, run:
```sh
./scripts/rebuild.sh
```
This will:
- Stop all services.
- Remove named volumes.
- Restart everything with a clean state.

### **🔹 Viewing Logs**
To see logs for all services:
```sh
docker compose logs -f
```

To view logs for a specific service:
```sh
docker compose logs -f <service_name>
```
Example:
```sh
docker compose logs -f api-gateway
```

## ⚙ **Configuration**

### **🔹 Environment Variables**
The main server has its own `.env` file. The location is:

- **Koneksi Server**: `server/.env`

Make sure you update these file with the correct values before running the services.

### **🔹 Network Configuration**
All services are attached to the `network` defined in `docker-compose.yml`, allowing them to communicate using **service names**.

Example:
- **Server can connect to MongoDB** using:  
  ```
  mongodb://root:password@mongo:27017
  ```

## 🛠 **Adding a New Microservice**
To add a new service:
1. Create a directory under `services/` (e.g., `services/new-service`).
2. Add a `Dockerfile` and configuration files.
3. Update `docker-compose.yml` with:
   ```yaml
   new-service:
     build:
       context: services/new-service
       dockerfile: Dockerfile
     container_name: new-service
     restart: unless-stopped
     ports:
       - "300X:300X"
     env_file:
       - services/new-service/.env
     networks:
       - network
   ```
4. Start the service:
   ```sh
   docker compose up -d new-service
   ```

## 🛠 **Common Issues & Fixes**

### **❌ Port Already in Use**
**Issue:**  
```
Error: Bind for 0.0.0.0:8081 failed: port is already allocated
```
**Fix:**  
Run:
```sh
docker ps
```
Find the conflicting container and stop it:
```sh
docker stop <container_id>
```

### **❌ MongoDB Connection Issues**
**Fix:**  
Ensure MongoDB is running:
```sh
docker compose up -d mongo
```
Then check logs:
```sh
docker compose logs -f mongo
```

### **❌ Service Not Found**
**Fix:**  
Run:
```sh
docker network inspect network
```
If the service is missing, restart:
```sh
./scripts/stop.sh
./scripts/start.sh
```
